BREAKING CHANGE(gatsby-source-shopify): Rewrite for media, presentment, schema, etc. (#34049)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: packages/gatsby-source-shopify/README.md

    {
      resolve: "gatsby-source-shopify",
      options: {
        password: process.env.SHOPIFY_APP_PASSWORD,
        storeUrl: process.env.GATSBY_MYSHOPIFY_URL,

>         salesChannel: process.env.SHOPIFY_APP_ID, // Optional but recommended

Reviewer: I don't remember seeing this in the code - I'm curious to know, what exactly does it do?

Author: password and storeUrl are required in order to connect to the Shopify Admin API, but sales channel is an optional variable that allows us to source specific products, collections, etc. based on whether they have been published to that sales channel or not. For example, if I had a store and wanted to publish some products to the website, but make others only available for purchase off of another platform like Amazon, this would be quite useful. You can alternatively set the GATSBY_SHOPIFY_SALES_CHANNEL variable like the README states, and this is what Gatbsy Cloud does with the Shopify integration.

      },
    },
    "gatsby-plugin-image",
  ],
}
```

> 💡 Note: This plugin has a peer dependency on `gatsby-plugin-image` and will fail to build without it.

Reviewer: Good callout!

    {
      resolve: "gatsby-source-shopify",
      options: {
        password: process.env.SHOPIFY_APP_PASSWORD,
        storeUrl: process.env.GATSBY_MYSHOPIFY_URL,
        salesChannel: process.env.SHOPIFY_APP_ID, // Optional but recommended
      },
    },
    "gatsby-plugin-image",
  ],
}
```

💡 Note: This plugin has a peer dependency on `gatsby-plugin-image` and will fail to build without it.

<div id="retrieving-api-information-from-shopify"></div>

### Retrieving API Information from Shopify

> `GATSBY_MYSHOPIFY_URL` is the Store address you enter when logging into your Shopify account. This is in the format of `{store}.myshopify.com`.

Reviewer 2: Then this `{}` template-y look seems confusing. I thought `store` would be what `GATSBY_MYSHOPIFY_URL` is referring to. I've updated my suggestion.

> `GATSBY_MYSHOPIFY_URL` is the Store address you enter when logging into your Shopify account. This is in the format of `{store}.myshopify.com`.

Author: @LekoArts Wouldn't we want it to look like a template, because that's exactly what it is?

> `GATSBY_MYSHOPIFY_URL` is the Store address you enter when logging into your Shopify account. This is in the format of `{store}.myshopify.com`.

Reviewer: Good point @LekoArts. I opted for `my-unique-store-name.myshopify.com` to make it very obvious that the store name part of the URL needs to be different for each user

Now follow the second link to explore your Shopify data!

<div id="priority-builds"></div>

### Priority builds

> Because of the limiations of the Shopify Bulk API we have included logic in this plugin to determine which builds are high priority for a given Shopify site. This allows us to pause deploy preview builds while production builds are running while using the same Shopify App. The following logic determines whether a build is priority or not:

Reviewer: Shouldn't this be "cancel"?

```suggestion
Because of the limiations of the Shopify Bulk API we have included logic in this plugin to determine which builds are high priority for a given Shopify site. This allows us to cancel preview builds while production builds are running while using the same Shopify App. The following logic determines whether a build is priority or not:
```

```js
const isPriorityBuild = process.env.GATSBY_IS_PREVIEW !== `true` && process.env.GATSBY_IS_PR_BUILD !== `true`
```

> These environment variables are set by default by Gatsby Cloud, but we are working diligently to make this plugin workby default with Netlify and local development as well, and are looking at the option to override these defaults in the plugin options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These environment variables are set by default by Gatsby Cloud, but we are working diligently to make this plugin work by default with Netlify and local development as well, and are looking at the option to override these defaults in the plugin options.
```

Now follow the second link to explore your Shopify data!

<div id="priority-builds"></div>

### Priority builds

> Because of the limiations of the Shopify Bulk API we have included logic in this plugin to determine which builds are high priority for a given Shopify site. This allows us to pause deploy preview builds while production builds are running while using the same Shopify App. The following logic determines whether a build is priority or not:

Reviewer: @byronlanehill shouldn't we say "cancel preview builds" rather than "pause preview builds" here? Or do we actually have logic to pause preview builds and retry later on?

> Because of the limiations of the Shopify Bulk API we have included logic in this plugin to determine which builds are high priority for a given Shopify site. This allows us to pause deploy preview builds while production builds are running while using the same Shopify App. The following logic determines whether a build is priority or not:

Author: @veryspry We do have logic that pauses the build assuming it is not prioritized. The only time a build would fail is if it is prioritized and is canceled anyways, which would indicate that there are multiple prioritized builds running concurrently.

This query is commonly used on collection pages to only load necessary image data.
```graphql
query {
  products: allShopifyProduct {
    nodes {
      featuredMedia {
        preview {
          image {
            gatsbyImageData
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

#### Product Media Previews
This query is commonly used on product pages to display images for all media types.
```graphql
query {
  products: allShopifyProduct {
    nodes {
      media {
        preview {
          image {
            gatsbyImageData
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

💡 Note: This query will return images for all media types including videos.

#### Product Media Previews and Videos
This query is commonly used on product pages to display images alongside videos.
```graphql
query {
  products: allShopifyProduct {
    nodes {
      media {
        preview {
          image {
            gatsbyImageData
          }
        }
        ... on ShopifyExternalVideo {
          embeddedUrl
          host
        }
        ... on ShopifyVideo {
          sources {
            format
            height
            url
            width
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> 💡 Note: Previous versions of this plugin exposed the `images` field on products. Although it made the plugin easier to interact with, it made it impossible to add videos to your products. The new version of the plugin exposes the `media` field directly, allowing you to query for all of the images, videos and 3D renderings that Shopify supports.

Reviewer: What do you think about adding an example of using a fragment to get images? I think it would look something like this IIRC

```graphql
query {
  products: allShopifyProduct {
    nodes {
      media {
        ... on MediaImage {
            # fields...................
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Author: There are a couple of caveats to this approach. I thought this would work as well, but the problem became that any objects that aren't MediaImage (ShopifyVideo, ExternalVideo, Model3d) would return empty objects, with no way to filter them out other than client-side. Although the query would work, the preview image query is more robust, especially because if the user ran this query when there were only images on their Shopify site it would work fine, but after anyone added a video to Shopify it would break the site with undefined errors.

My opinion would be to put that query in the migration guide, but if you have other considerations I haven't thought of I am open to hearing them!

`salesChannel: string`

Not set by default. If set to a string (example `My Sales Channel`), only products, variants, collections and locations that are published to that channel will be sourced. If you want to filter products by a Private App instead of Public App or default sales channel, you have to provide the App ID instead of sales channel name. You can find this in the same place as the Shopify App Password.

💡 Note: The `salesChannel` plugin option defaults to the value of `process.env.GATBSY_SHOPIFY_SALES_CHANNEL`. If that value is not set the plugin will source only objects that are published to the `online store` sales channel.

<div id="images"></div>

## Images

We offer two options for displaying Shopify images in your Gatsby site. The default option is to use the Shopify CDN along with [gatsby-plugin-image](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/plugins/gatsby-plugin-image/), but you can also opt-in to downloading the images as part of the build process. Your choice will result in differences to the schema. Both options are explained below.

<div id="use-shopify-cdn"></div>

### Use Shopify CDN

> This is the default behavior and is intended to be used in conjunction with [gatsby-plugin-image][gatsby-plugin-image].

Reviewer: @LekoArts don't we usually favor relative links for docs like this?  `/plugins/gatsby-plugin-image/`

    {
      resolve: "gatsby-source-shopify",
      options: {

>         password: process.env.SHOPIFY_APP_PASSWORD,

Reviewer: Side note: we should add these updated env var names to the migration guide

Author: I don't believe we would need to. Because this code is in the gatsby-config.js file, they can keep their current .env variables exactly the same and the repo will still work as intended. Changing the names of the variables just made it more clear where they are coming from by using the same terminology Shopify does.

<div id="migration-guide"></div>

## 🚌 V6 to V7 Migration Guide

Need help upgrading this source plugin from V6 to V7? We want this guide to be as useful as possible. Please open an issue and let us know if you see anything wrong here or find something missing from this guide 🙏

The following breaking schema changes must be updated in your site in order to upgrade:

### `ShopifyProduct` Images/Media

> It was previoulsy supported to query for videos or 3D models. In order to add support for these, the `ShopifyProduct` `images` field has been replaced by the `media` field.

Author: `Previously only querying for images was supported. In order to add support for 3D Models and Videos, the `ShopifyProduct.images` field has been replaced by the `ShopifyProduct.media` union.

Instead of doing this:

```graphql
shopifyProduct {
  images {
    gatsbyImageData
  }
}
```

You'll now need to do this to get image data:

```graphql
shopifyProduct {
  images {
    media {
      ... on ShopifyMediaImage {
        image {
          gatsbyImageData
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> You can also query for

Author: To be completed

### `ShopifyProduct` Options

> `ShopifyProductOption` is the type that backs `ShopifyProduct.options` field. Its `id` field has been changed to `shopifyId`.

Author: `ShopifyProductOption` is the type returned from `ShopifyProduct.options`. `ShopifyProductOption.id` has been renamed to `ShopifyProductOption.shopifyId`.

Before:

```graphql
shopifyProduct {
  options {
    id
  }
}
```

After:

```graphql
shopifyProduct {
  options { # each of these options are of type "ShopifyProductOption"
    shopifyId
  }
}
```

### Metafields

> Previously, the following metafield types used to be exist:

Author: Previously the following metafield types used to exist:

- `ShopifyProductMetafield`
- `ShopifyCollectionMetafield`
- `ShopifyProductVariantMetafield`

> These have now been combined into one type field called `ShopifyMetafield`.

Author: These have now been combined into a single `ShopifyMetafield` type.

> Additionally, the `ownerType` field is type as an enum that matches [the Shopify API enum for the metafield `ownerType` field](https://shopify.dev/api/admin-graphql/2022-01/enums/)

Author: Additionally, `Metafield.ownerType` has been changed from a `string` to an `enum` type.
